Welcome back.
So, let's just quickly take a
look at the not operator
and be done.
Be done with the relational
operators in any case.
So, in order to,
in order to make this code
more readable
you should really use some
parenthesis
like this. I mean,
you're not going to,
you're not going to make
any difference in the compiler
it really
doesn't
care.
But
when somebody's reading it,
another human being,
when they're reading it,
they will appreciate you
segmenting it.
Anyway.
Let's go ahead and take a look
at the logical not operator.
The logical not...
Sorry. It's not...
you need to write an exclamation
mark, that's the not operator.
My bad.
It's just habit from another
programming language. Never mind.
Anyway, of all the logical
operators not
has the highest
presidence.
And logical not operator is a
unary operator because
it has only one operand,
denoted with an exclamation mark.
So if you
write exclamation mark
and if you type
for example, I don't know, A
it means not A.
That's how it's read,
anyway.
But if you type,
let's go ahead and make an
example down below.
Say, not 1.
=
Oh sorry.
bool
not1
=
Ah can't use this. This is a naming
standard, this is going to...
Let's just go ahead and say
n1
and
we're going to say
exclamation mark A.
So, what this means...
What do you think that
the value of n1will be?
Try to guess. So, let me just share
you one more time, A
is equal to true.
Now since we've placed an
exclamation mark,
infront of it, we have successfully
negated it.
So instead of true,
it will be
false. And the value of n1
will be
false.
If you type in,
bool
down below,
we can, I don't know...
type in n2 and say,
not
not C.
Okay so,
What do you think that the
value of n2 will be?
Think about it.
C
is equal to false.
If we negate this,
it's false.
Ah I'm sorry, if we negate it,
it's going to be true.
So n2 will have the value of
true.
That's it.
No...
You're basically just reversing it.
Like this, if A is true, if you
negate it, it's going to become false.
If C is false, that if you negate it,
it's going to become true.
So this is what I mean
by
the
presidence. If I type in
bool
I don't know, n3,
completely irrelevant,
the name of the variable
in this case.
A
B
!C &&
D
Ah that should be fine.
A
&&
B, sorry.
Okay, there we go.
So, A
&& !C &&
D
So,
what do you...
Take a look at the expression
and try to reach a conclusion
what the end result will be.
The end result will be true.
Because
true
and
A is true.
And we have
negated C here. So,
C will also become true.
And D is also true.
Henceforth,
the result will be true.
Always will be true.
If I type in bool n4,
I do believe this will be the
last example that I shall
give you.
In this regard, you can type in
!A
and try to, as I write it out,
try to guess the result.
Try to guess what will it be.
Will the end result be true?
Or will it be
false?
If I type in
!B
||
!C || !D
So,
take a guess
or conclude it for
yourselves.
It's or.
So as long as at least one
of these
evaluates the true,
this is going to be,
the entire section will be
evaluated as true.
Henceforth, the result will
be true
because A is true.
But if we negate it,
it's false.
And
false and false
will yield
false because B is also true
and when you negate it,
it will be false.
And then you have,
ooops like this,
false and
true
is true.
Because C is false and once
negated it will become true,
henceforth,
the result will be true.
Anyway, that's it
as far as the relational operators
are concerned.
It should be
fine. I don't believe
that I have
skipped anything and
we will jump,
sorry, not relational, these are
the logical operators that
should be it as far as the
logical operators are concerned.
No more I shall speak of them
but later on
when we go through the
examples. You will see
more complex variance of
this. We will use them
extensively.
Please make sure that you
understand this.
You will
need this.
I mean,
four conditions, it will,
you can,
this is,
if you have millions of lines of code
you are bound to encounter
a lot of these examples.
If you have a hundred lines
of code,
you are still bound to encounter
these examples
because a lot of
what C++ is,
a lot of what it does,
it will be based on
sets and sets and sets of
conditions.
Your code will be based
on that basically.
Anyway if you don't
understand these completely,
please look it up on the net.
Additionally, ask questions in
the discussion section and
again if you fail,
it's okay. Just keep on going.
It will be used as I said
extensively through the codes so
hopefully, eventually,
you will pick it up.
So next up,
we will go into
relational operators
so in the follow up tutorial.
Until then,
I'm going to bid you farewell
and a ton load of luck with this.